---
title: Guided Project 1 WolfScheduler - Course and Schedule
tags: [software engineering, software lifecycle, CS2, CSC216, GP1]
description: Guided Task - Generate Javadoc
navigation: on
pagegroup: gp1
---
# Guided Task: Generate Javadoc
{% include iconHeader.html type="dtTool" %}

Commenting your code is important! Comments describe what the code is supposed to do. At a minimum, you should comment your classes, fields, and methods. All methods should be Javadoc-ed, including methods that were automatically generated by Eclipse. When working with CSC 216 projects, you should delete any automatically generated non-Javadoc documentation and replace it with Javadoc appropriate for the overridden method.

Java provides the Javadoc tool to generate a set of web pages that display the comments for your code.

Every time you use the Java API, you are using web pages generated with the Javadoc tool. The Java developers have done an *__excellent__* job of commenting the class files in the Java SDK. You can use the API to find classes and methods that may help you implement the program you're writing. You should return the favor to those who may use your code (as well as the future you) by writing comments. By writing the comments in a Javadoc format, you'll be able to generate an API for your code that will benefit future programmers.

 
## Configure and Run Javadoc for your Project
After you have written your Javadoc in your class files, you can run the Javadoc tool on your code by selecting **Project > Generate Javadoc**.

In the resulting dialog, you must configure the Javadoc command if you have not already done so. To configure Javadoc, click **Configure**. Browse to the location where you installed your JDK. The `javadoc` tool is in the `bin` folder.

Additionally, you can select which projects/packages/classes/and files you want to run Javadoc on.  Most of the time, you only want to generate Javadoc for classes in the source folder since they represent a deliverable that others may use. 

Check the option to **Use standard doclet**.  Browse for your project as the destination and then append a `doc` folder to the end of the path.  


{% include image.html file="images/GenerateJavadoc.PNG" caption="Figure: Generate Javadoc" %} 

If you want to edit additional details about the generated Javadoc, click **Next**. (The default settings are sufficient for CSC 216.) Click **Finish** to generate the Javadoc. If your project does not already have a `doc` folder, Eclipse prompts you to create the destination folder. Click **Yes To All**.

When the Javadoc has been created, refresh your project listing in the **Package Explorer** if it has not been done automatically.  You can do this by selecting your project and pressing **F5**.  Your project should now show a `doc` directory.

 
## Fix Javadoc Errors and Warnings
Console output is generated when creating Javadoc.  You should scroll back through the output to see if there are any errors or warnings that you need to fix.  An example warning about a missing description on a `@throws` tag is shown.  Fix any warnings or errors and regenerate.


{% include image.html file="images/JavadocWarning.PNG" caption="Figure: Javadoc Warning" %} 

 
## Check Generated Javadoc Pages
You can view your Javadoc by opening the `index.html` within the `doc` directory.  When you open an `*.html` file inside Eclipse, a browser will be opened in the Eclipse editor showing your newly generated Javadoc.

Any time you update your Javadoc, you should regenerate the HTML files!

{% include image.html file="images/GeneratedJavadoc.PNG" caption="Figure:  Generated Javadoc" %} 

 
## Push to GitHub
Before moving on to the next portion of the Guided Project, complete the following tasks:

  * Ensure all classes and methods are fully commented and your Javadoc pages are up to date.
  * Add the unstaged changes to the index.
  * Commit and push changes.  Remember to use a meaningful commit message describing how you have changed the code.  Try writing your own commit message for this push!

{% capture callout_content %}
GitHub Resources:

  * [Staging Files](../git-tutorial/git-staging)
  * [Committing Files](../git-tutorial/git-commit)
  * [Pushing Files](../git-tutorial/git-push)
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="vcTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Staging and Pushing to GitHub" %}
    
