---
title: CSC Git Guide
tags: [software engineering, software lifecycle, CS2, CSC, git, github]
description: Ignore Specified Files
navigation: on
pagegroup: git-tutorial
---

# Ignore Specified Files

To tell Git to ignore certain files, create a `.gitignore` file in your project's Git working directory.

    GitRepositories  [a directory that contains one or more of your Git repositories]
       -> csc216-001-GP1-021 [a single Git repository]
          -> .git [may be a hidden folder, depending on your operating system]
          -> .gitignore
		 

{% capture callout_content %}	 
The rules for `.gitignore` files include:

   * Blank lines, or lines starting with `#`, are ignored
   * Standard regular expression patterns work in `.gitignore` files
      * Asterisk (`*`) matches zero or more characters
      * `[abc]` matches any character inside the brackets
      * `?` matches a single character
      * Brackets surrounding characters separated by a hyphen (for example, `[0-9]`) matches any character between those characters (in the example, any digit between 0 and 9, inclusive)
      * `\*\*` to match nested directories. For example, `/projectName/\*\*/Main.java`.
   * Start patterns with a forward slash (`/`) to avoid recursivity
   * End patterns with a forward slash (`/`) to indicate a directory
   * Negate a pattern by starting it with an exclamation point (`!`)		
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="vcTool" type="conceptualKnowledge" title="Conceptual Knowledge: Git Ignore Rules" %}
   
An example `.gitignore` file that you should use as a starting-point in this course:

    # This rule ignores the contents of the bin/ build output directory (which includes .class files)
    bin/

    # This rule ignores temporary files that end with ~
    *~

    # This rule ignores the contents of the .settings directory generated by Eclipse
    .settings/
	
Since `.class` files (and other build output) are generated when you build your actual `.java` files, you do not need to commit them to the repository. Similarly, sometimes (depending on your operating system and applications), temporary files may be generated that end with `~` (for example, when you are editing Microsoft Word files, Word creates a temporary document that ends with `~` until you save and close the document).	

You can create your `.gitignore `file by either using [Git Bash](#creating-the-.gitignore-file-using-git-bash) or a [text editor](#creating-the-.gitignore-file-using-a-text-editor).
	

## Creating the `.gitignore` File using Git Bash
In Git Bash:

   1. Browse to your repository working directory.
   2. Execute the following command as a quick/shortcut way to generate your .gitignore file:

     
	     touch .gitignore 
	  

 The [touch command](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Touch_%28Unix%29) will automatically create the `.gitignore` file for you. 
   
   {:start="3"}
   3. open the .gitignore file in a text editor, add your ignore rules, and save. **Make sure the file does not somehow save with a .txt extension.** We want the file to remain as .gitignore, not .gitignore.txt.	 
	 

## Creating the `.gitignore` File using a Text Editor

   1. Open a text editor (like Notepad, Notepad++, nano, or gedit).
   2. Add your ignore rules, and save the file as **`.gitignore`**. In the **Save As...** dialog, be sure to save the file type as **(\*.\*) All Files**, and not as **(\*.txt) Text Documents**. If you save as a **.txt** file, your `.gitignore` will incorrectly be **.gitignore.txt** and will not work.

