---
title: CSC216 Lab 03 - Collections
tags: [software engineering, software lifecycle, CS2, CSC216, Lab03]
description: CSC216 Lab 03 - Deployment
navigation: on
pagegroup: 03-lab
---
# CSC216 Lab 03: Deployment
{% include iconHeader.html type="deployment" %}
When you deploy your software, you release it to your customer.  For CSC216, that means your work is ready for evaluation by the teaching staff.  We will evaluate your work against the [Lab 03 rubric](#lab-rubric).  As you compare your submission against the rubric and make your final push to GitHub, you will complete these final tasks:

  * You have met the [requirements](03-lab-requirements) and [design](03-lab-design) for the [Lab 03 `PackScheduler`](../03-lab) project.
  * You have a green ball on [your lab section's Jenkins](#lab-deadlines-jenkins-servers) (No test failures and no static analysis notifications).
  * All student unit tests pass with a green bar (0 errors).
  * At least 80% statement coverage on `Student`, `StudentRecordIO`, and `StudentDirectory`. (Note you may have a green ball on Jenkins and lose points here.  When grading, we look at each class individually.  Jenkins gives a green ball for an average of 80% statement coverage.  A green ball for coverage does NOT mean full credit for coverage!)
  * All teaching staff JUnit tests pass with a green bar (0 errors).
  * You have run system level black box tests on your submission and reported actual results of execution.
  * There are no FindBugs notifications.
  * There are no PMD notifications.
  * There are no CheckStyle notifications.
  * All code is commented with meaningful comments.
  * [Javadoc webpages](#generate-javadoc) are generated with the latest comments.
  * That you [meet all rubric items for the assignment](#lab-rubric).

Make sure that [you push all code and other required artifacts to GitHub](#push-to-github) by the [assignment deadline](#lab-deadlines-jenkins-servers).  [Check your Jenkins results](#check-jenkins) on [your lab's Jenkins server](#lab-deadlines-jenkins-servers)  **Lab assignments will not be accepted late!**


## Generate Javadoc
Commenting your code is important! Comments describe what the code is supposed to do. At a minimum, you should comment your classes, fields, and methods. All methods should be Javadoc-ed, including methods that were automatically generated by Eclipse. When working with CSC 216 projects, you should delete any automatically generated non-Javadoc documentation and replace it with Javadoc appropriate for the overridden method.

Java provides the Javadoc tool to generate a set of web pages that display the comments for your code.


{% capture callout_content %}
To generate Javadoc, you need to [configure and run the Javadoc tool](../../gp1/gp1-javadoc#configure-and-run-javadoc-for-your-project), [fix Javadoc errors and warnings](../../gp1/gp1-javadoc#fix-javadoc-errors-and-warnings), and [check the generated Javadoc pages](../../gp1/gp1-javadoc#check-generated-javadoc-pages).  Make sure you push your changes to GitHub!
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="dtTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Generating Javadoc" %}

## Lab Checks
There are several checks that will occur during your build to ensure that you're following software engineering best practices:

  * Library checks: For Lab 03, you'll be working with the `SortedList` class that is part of the CSC216Collections library.  All of your references to `ArrayList` MUST be removed from your project - including the Javadoc.  If you receive a red ball and a message in the console output about using `ArrayList` search your project for the string and regenerate your Javadoc!
  * Coverage checks: You must have 80% coverage for *each* non-GUI and non-test class in `PackScheduler`.  A tool will check that you have passed the 80% threshold before running any of the teaching tests.

{% capture callout_content %}
Now that we're using the `SortedList` library, all references to `java.util.ArrayList` should be removed from your `PackScheduler` system.  Automated grading on Jenkins will be checking that there are no references to `java.util.ArrayList` in your project.  This is a global check, and will consider ALL files in your project!  If a reference to `java.util.ArrayList` is found, Jenkins will fail the build and not run the teaching staff tests.

So where should you look to remove references to `ArrayList`?

  * Import statements in all classes
  * Source Javadoc that has a link to `java.util.ArrayList`
  * Generated Javadoc that references `java.util.ArrayList`
  
Finding and removing a reference to `java.util.ArrayList` in your generated Javadoc can be tedious.  The easiest way to remove any reference to `java.util.ArrayList` in generated Javadoc is to: 

  1. Remove references to `java.util.ArrayList` in your source code.
  2. Delete your `doc/` folder
  3. Regenerate your Javadoc on your updated code.
  
We want to purge your code of references to `java.util.ArrayList` now because from this point on, you're no longer allowed to use the Java Collections Framework in your code!  One of the learning outcomes in CSC216 is to **implement** and **test** your own linear data structures.  Future labs will cover writing your own `ArrayList` and `LinkedList`, which will then be used in `PackScheduler` rather than any Java Collections Framework classes!
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="plTool" type="reminder" title="Removing References to `ArrayList`" %}


## Lab Deadlines & Jenkins Servers
All labs are due 10 minutes before the start of the next lab.  Additionally, each lab section has their own dedicated lab Jenkins server.  The table below provides the deadline and server URL for each lab section for the current semester.


{% capture callout_content %}
You will receive a certificate warning about a self-signed certificate when accessing the Jenkins servers for CSC216.  All of the certificates for CSC216 Jenkins servers were self signed personally by Dr. Heckman.  Please accept the exception each time you visit a Jenkins server.

Also note that permissions to the Jenkins server are at the job level.  If you have no permissions to any job, you will be unable to sign into the Jenkins server.  Once jobs are created,  you will be able to sign in.
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="ciTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Jenkins Certificate Warnings" %}

{% include lab_deadlines.md mon=site.data.labs.lab03.mon03 tues=site.data.labs.lab03.tues03 wed=site.data.labs.lab03.wed03 %}



## Lab Rubric
You will be evaluated out of 70 points in the [Technical Rubric](#technical-rubric).  On-campus students will also be [evaluated on their teaming](#on-campus-collaboration-rubric): a combination of In-Lab Participation and Out-Lab Participation.  Collaborating DE students will also be [evaluated on their participation in their pair](#de-collaboration-rubric).  

Pair/teams are expected to work together on all aspects of the lab activity.  Points may be deducted for not contributing or for not providing a partner the opportunity to contribute.  The teaching staff strongly encourages working synchronously and **requires** that these collaborative sessions are documented in GitHub commit messages for the teaching staff to note the team contribution.


### Technical Rubric

|Phase|Rubric Item|Points|Description|
|:---|:----------|----------:|:------------------------------------------------------|
|{% include icon.html type="design" width="30px" %}{% include icon.html type="unitTest" width="30px" %}|Teaching Staff Unit Tests|15|Pass all of the teaching staff unit tests (no regressions), both provided and hidden.|
|{% include icon.html type="unitTest" width="30px" %}|Student Unit Tests|15|Pass all of your unit tests.|
|{% include icon.html type="unitTest" width="30px" %}|Student Test Coverage|15|80% statement/line coverage on every non-UI/non-test class|
|{% include icon.html type="systemTest" width="30px" %}|Teaching Staff Acceptance Tests|10|Passing teaching staff acceptance tests|
|{% include icon.html type="implementation" width="30px" %}|Javadoc Comments|5|All classes, including the tests are commented with meaningful comments.|
|{% include icon.html type="implementation" width="30px" %}|Javadoc Generation|5|Javadoc tool was used to generate the HTML version of the API, which matches the current version of the in-code Javadoc.|
|{% include icon.html type="implementation" width="30px" %}|Style|5|Any PMD, CheckStyle, or FindBugs Scary or Scariest notifications will result in a one point deduction, up to the available points.|
| |**Total**|**70**| |


### Collaboration Rubric
The collaboration rubric will only be applied to those working on teams.  

#### On-Campus Collaboration Rubric

|Rubric Item|Points|Description|
|:----------|----------:|:------------------------------------------------------|
|In-Lab Participation|15|PTFs will be looking for collaboration with your partner during lab activities.  Did you participate in completing the lab assignment?  Did you balance your roles of driver and navigator?  There will be deductions for observations of non-participation or hogging of one role or the other so a partner cannot participate.|
|Out-Lab Participation|15|Did you make at least one meaningful commit to GitHub for completing the lab (e.g., meaningful means that the commit has to contribute to the solution and isn't superficial)?  If you pair programmed, is it noted in the commit message?  Did you not allow your partner, who wanted to contribute, to commit?|
|**Total**|**30**| |

#### DE Collaboration Rubric

|Rubric Item|Points|Description|
|:----------|----------:|:------------------------------------------------------|
|Collaboration|15|Did you make at least one meaningful commit to GitHub for completing the lab (e.g., meaningful means that the commit has to contribute to the solution and isn't superficial)?  If you pair programmed, is it noted in the commit message?  Did you not allow your partner, who wanted to contribute, to commit?|
|**Total**|**15**| |


### Deductions

|Deduction Item|Deduction|Details|
|:--------------|---------:|----------------------------------------|
|Misnamed submission file|-5|Your entire Eclipse project, named `PackScheduler`, must be pushed to GitHub for automated grading.  If your Jenkins job cannot find and grade your project, the teaching staff will attempt to grade it manually.  The deduction will apply in this case.|
|Incomplete project submission|-5|If the teaching staff are unable to directly import your submission as an Eclipse project into our workspaces when grading, you will receive a 5 point deduction. Make sure that your `.project` and `.classpath` files are pushed to GitHub.|
|Other Deductions|-5|If the project has to be manually graded due, you will receive a 5 point deduction.  Make sure that your project builds on Jenkins!|


## Push to GitHub
Finalize your submission by pushing all of your code and other project artifacts to [GitHub](https://github.ncsu.edu)

  * Ensure all classes and methods are fully commented and your Javadoc pages are up to date.
  * Add the unstaged changes to the index.
  * Commit and push changes.  Remember to use a meaningful commit message describing how you have changed the code.  


{% capture callout_content %}
GitHub Resources:

  * [Staging Files](../../git-tutorial/git-staging)
  * [Committing Files](../../git-tutorial/git-commit)
  * [Pushing Files](../../git-tutorial/git-push)
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="vcTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Staging and Pushing to GitHub" %}


## Check Jenkins
Ensure that your Jenkins job is reflecting the results that you expect for the level of completion of your lab assignment.


{% capture callout_content %}
Check the following items on Jenkins for [your last build](../../jenkins/#build-summary-page) and use the results to [estimate your grade](../../jenkins/#grade-estimation-example):

  * [Test Results](../../jenkins/#test-results)
  * [FindBugs Report](../../jenkins/#findbugs-report)
  * [CheckStyle Report](../../jenkins/#checkstyle-report)
  * [PMD Report](../../jenkins/#pmd-report)
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="ciTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Interpreting Jenkins" %}
